docs: add Unstable tests section with Flake Filter page (#836)
chromaui/chromatic-docs: src/content/unstableTests/flake-filter.md

---

> title: Flake Filter

Reviewer: We typically don't capitalize the second word 

<img width="1053" height="1020" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/82929a9c-fadd-45cb-9445-d12806ad1cdc" />

> description: Flake filter detects flaky tests, labels them as unstable, and ignores them automatically so they never block your build. Traces help you debug and fix them.

Reviewer: the second sentence doesn't make sense in this context

sidebar: { order: 1 }
slug: 'flake-filter'
---

# Flake filter

> Flaky tests fail intermittently because they render differently on each test run without any change to your code. This might be because of an animation caught mid-frame, a font that loads late, randomized or dynamic data, a network request that doesn't finish in time, etc.

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
- Switch order of the intro paragraphs
- Create a callout or separate section "What is flake?" and define it (the first paragraph)

[Unstable tests](/docs/unstable-tests) add a lot of noise to the review process because they fail intermittently without any change to your code.

> Flake Filter automatically detects and ignores unstable tests so they don’t require approval or block your build. You can also manually ignore a test to unblock a build without accepting unexpected changes.

Reviewer: I think you could probably simplify this down to:
> Flake Filter automatically detects and ignores unstable tests so they don’t block your build.

--------------

> don't require approval

We use terms like **accept**ing baselines and false positives. Approval is for UI Review.

> A build passes when every other test is passed or accepted.

Reviewer: This doesn't have enough context. Do we need it?

> ## Auto-ignored unstable tests

Reviewer: Auto-ignore unstable tests

> Chromatic verifies every visual change by rendering a test multiple times to evaluate whether it's a genuine change, a transient flake, or an unstable test. Under the hood, a single test may be rendered two or three times, but you’re billed only one snapshot per test.

Reviewer: The "transient flake" doesn't meany anything to me as a customer because our algorithm auto-fixes that. All I care about are genuine changes and unstable tests.

Any way we can simplify this paragraph down? 

I also think the diagram doesn't really aid in my understanding of Flake filter. It's cool but I'm left with a "hmph" reaction rather than a "aha".

When Chromatic [detects that a test is unstable](/docs/unstable-tests#multiple-snapshots-to-detect-unstable-tests), it ignores that test automatically.

On the build page, actual changes show up top while ignored tests are grouped separately in a collapsed section below.

![Chromatic test results page showing a list of tests with changes, and collapsed group at the bottom saying 4 unstable tests are auto-ignored.](../../images/unstable-tests-grouped.png)

On the test page, an unstable test has an eyebrow indicating the test is unstable.

![Chromatic test page showing an unstable test with an eyebrow indicating instability.](../../images/unstable-test.png)

> ## Manually ignore a test

Reviewer: I think we should create a separate a separate Ignore docs page. This lets **Flake filter** only apply to the auto-ignore behavior we do on users behalf.

That Ignore page would include ignore persistence documentation as well. The persistence piece doesn't matter for Flake filter because each build can have different unstable tests.

Author: I don't think it deserves to be a separate page. But, it probably goes along better with quarantine. If you're manually ignoring a test multiple times then quarantine it. wdyt?

Reviewer: I still think it belongs on a separate page. Consider the Flake filter toggle on the manage screen doesn't turn manual ignore off when disabled:
<img width="759" height="206" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8e52f568-577c-47c6-985e-ba1e82e138b0" />

Manual ignore is another action you can do on a snapshot. Maybe it doesn't belong under Unstable after all.

> ![Flowchart of the detection flow: a snapshot that differs from the baseline is rendered a second time. A second render matching the baseline is a transient flake that auto-resolves; one matching the first render is a consistent change reported for review; one matching neither triggers a third render with tracing enabled. If the third render still differs, the test is labelled Unstable with a trace attached.](../../images/diagrams/unstable-test-detection.svg)

Reviewer 2: @winkerVSbecks small typo here:
```suggestion
![Flowchart of the detection flow: a snapshot that differs from the baseline is rendered a second time. A second render matching the baseline is a transient flake that auto-resolves; one matching the first render is a consistent change reported for review; one matching neither triggers a third render with tracing enabled. If the third render still differs, the test is labeled Unstable with a trace attached.](../../images/diagrams/unstable-test-detection.svg).
```

<div class="aside">

> Need to park the changes on a _stable_ test? You can also [ignore tests](/docs/ignore-tests) on a build.

Reviewer: I was thrown off by "park" as a verb. Not sure we need this callout.

</div>

### Auto-ignores don't persist across builds

> Auto-ignoring is scoped to a single build and re-evaluated on every build, so when a test stops flaking, it returns to normal on the next build automatically. Ignoring a test also doesn't affect your [baselines](/docs/branching-and-baselines) unless you take action to accept or deny it, and it doesn't surface changes in the [UI Review](/docs/review) workflow.

Reviewer 2: @winkerVSbecks feel free to disregard, but we can probably go with something along these lines for accuracy on the pattern enforced by the flake test feature's default behavior and avoid confusion with the manual ignore workflow.

```suggestion
Auto-ignoring is scoped to a single build and re-evaluated on every build, so when a test stops flaking, it returns to normal on the next build automatically. Tests labeled as unstable and automatically ignored won't affect your [baselines](/docs/branching-and-baselines) unless you take action to accept or deny them, and they won't surface changes in the [UI Review](/docs/review) workflow.
```
I saw @domyen's comment about this, but I would rather preserve some sort of text even if it's a callout to inform users of this fact.

> Auto-ignoring is scoped to a single build and re-evaluated on every build, so when a test stops flaking, it returns to normal on the next build automatically. Ignoring a test also doesn't affect your [baselines](/docs/branching-and-baselines) unless you take action to accept or deny it, and it doesn't surface changes in the [UI Review](/docs/review) workflow.

Reviewer: This paragraph can be integrated into the previous section. It doesn't need to be separate. For example:

> Flake filter runs on each build to prevent unstable tests from blocking CI. When a test stops flaking, it automatically re-enters the test suite. 

Baseline behavior can be folded into the previous section as well.

Author: IMO this looses the intention of this section. I'm going to simplify it but change the wording a bit.

<!-- TODO(screenshot): A manually ignored test showing the undo affordance -->

## Ignores don't persist across builds

Ignoring is scoped to a single build. Auto-ignoring is re-evaluated on every build, so when a test stops flaking, it returns to normal on the next build automatically. Similarly, a manually ignored test is captured and compared as usual on future builds.

Ignoring a test also doesn't affect your [baselines](/docs/branching-and-baselines) unless you take action to accept or deny it, and it doesn't surface changes in the [UI Review](/docs/review) workflow.

## Frequently asked questions

<details>
<summary>Do ignored tests count toward my snapshot usage?</summary>

Yes. Chromatic has to capture a test to determine whether it's stable, so ignored tests still count toward your snapshot usage. However, even when Chromatic [captures a test multiple times](/docs/unstable-tests#multiple-snapshots-to-detect-unstable-tests) to detect instability, you are only billed for one snapshot per test.

</details>

<details>

> <summary>Can I turn off auto-ignoring for unstable tests?</summary>

Reviewer: yes you can do this now

> <summary>Can I turn off auto-ignoring for unstable tests?</summary>

Reviewer: The instructions for how to enable/disable belong in the body not in a FAQ
